Add Running a Workload (#6287)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/running-workloads.md

---
layout: default
title: Running a workload
nav_order: 9
parent: User guide
---

# Running a workload

> After you understand all of the individual components of a OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/), you can now to run your first workload. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have a complete understanding of the various components of an OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/), you can run your first workload. 
```

> Once you have a complete understanding of the various components of an OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/), you can run your first workload. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have a complete understanding of the various components of an OpenSearch Benchmark [workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/), you can run your first workload. 
```

## Step 1: Find the workload name

> To learn more about the standard workloads that come with OSB, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the standard workloads included with OpenSearch Benchmark, use the following command:
```

```
opensearch-benchmark list workloads 
```
{% include copy.html %}

> A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to the [use case] of your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The supported workloads for OSB are listed. Review the list and select the workload that best matches your cluster's [use case].
```

Reviewer: Should "[use case]" include a link?

> A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to the [use case] of your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to the use case of your cluster.
```

> A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to the use case of your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to your cluster's use case.
```

## Step 2: Running the test

After you've selected the workload, you can invoke the workload using the `opensearch-benchmark execute-test` command. Replace  `--target-host` with the `host:port` pairs for your cluster and `--client-options` with any authorization options required to access the cluster. The following example runs the `nyc_taxis` workload on a localhost for testing purposes. 

> If you want to run a test on an external cluster, see [Running the workload on your own cluster](#running-a-workload-on-your-own-cluster).

Reviewer 3: @Naarcha-AWS This link should point to the updated section name

```bash
opensearch-benchmark execute-test --pipeline=benchmark-only --workload=nyc_taxis --target-host=https://localhost:9200 --client-options=basic_auth_user:admin,basic_auth_password:admin,verify_certs:false
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Results from the test appear in the directory set by the `--output-path` option set in the `execute-test` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results from the test appear in the directory set by the `--output-path` option in the `execute-test` command.
```

### Test mode

> If you want run the test in test mode to make sure your workload operates as intended, add the `--test-mode` option to the `execute-test` command. Test mode ingests only the first 1000 documents from each index provided and runs query operations against them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to run the test in test mode to make sure your workload operates as intended, add the `--test-mode` option to the `execute-test` command. Test mode ingests only the first 1,000 documents from each index provided and runs query operations against them.
```

> If you want to run the test in test mode to make sure your workload operates as intended, add the `--test-mode` option to the `execute-test` command. Test mode ingests only the first 1,000 documents from each index provided and runs query operations against them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to run the test in test mode to make sure that your workload operates as intended, add the `--test-mode` option to the `execute-test` command. Test mode ingests only the first 1,000 documents from each index provided and runs query operations against them.
```

## Step 3: Validate the test

> After an OSB test runs, take the following steps to verify that it has run properly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After running an OpenSearch Benchmark test, take the following steps to verify that it has run properly:
```

> After an OpenSearch Benchmark test runs, take the following steps to verify that it has run properly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After an OSB test runs, take the following steps to verify that it has run properly:
```

- Note the number of documents in the OpenSearch or OpenSearch Dashboards index that you plan to run the benchmark against.

> - In the results returned by OSB, compare the `workload.json` file for your specific workload and verify that the document count matches the number of documents. For example, based on the [nyc_taxis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/nyc_taxis/workload.json#L20) `workload.json` file, you should expect to see `165346692` documents in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the results returned by OpenSearch Benchmark, compare the `workload.json` file for your specific workload and verify that the document count matches the number of documents. For example, based on the [nyc_taxis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/nyc_taxis/workload.json#L20) `workload.json` file, you should expect to see `165346692` documents in your cluster.
```

> - In the results returned by OSB, compare the `workload.json` file for your specific workload and verify that the document count matches the number of documents. For example, based on the [nyc_taxis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/nyc_taxis/workload.json#L20) `workload.json` file, you should expect to see `165346692` documents in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: Should these be numbered instead of bullets? They're referred to as "steps" above.

Author: Let's number them.

> - In the results returned by OpenSearch Benchmark, compare the `workload.json` file for your specific workload and verify that the document count matches the number of documents. For example, based on the [nyc_taxis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/nyc_taxis/workload.json#L20) `workload.json` file, you should expect to see `165346692` documents in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the results returned by OSB, compare the `workload.json` file for your specific workload and verify that the document count matches the number of documents. For example, based on the [nyc_taxis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/nyc_taxis/workload.json#L20) `workload.json` file, you should expect to see `165346692` documents in your cluster.
```

## Expected results

> OSB returns the following response once the benchmark completes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark returns the following response when the benchmark is complete:
```

> OpenSearch Benchmark returns the following response once the benchmark completes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OSB returns the following response once the benchmark completes:
```

|                                                 Min Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                                Mean Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                              Median Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                                 Max Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                       100th percentile latency | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |     45.5703 |     ms |
|                                  100th percentile service time | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |      11.316 |     ms |
|                                                     error rate | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |           0 |      % |

--------------------------------
[INFO] SUCCESS (took 18 seconds)
--------------------------------
```

## Running a workload on an external cluster

> Now that you're familiar with running OSB on a local cluster, you can run OSB on your external cluster, as described in the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a local cluster, you can run it on your external cluster, as described in the following steps:
```

> Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a local cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your external cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you're familiar with running OSB on a local cluster, you can run OSB on your external cluster, as described in the following steps:
```

>   * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a Universal Resource Identifier (URI), such as `https://search.mydomain.com`, or a `HOST:PORT` specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), such as `https://search.mydomain.com`, or a `HOST:PORT` specification.
```

>   * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a Universal Resource Identifier (URI), such as `https://search.mydomain.com`, or a `HOST:PORT` specification.

Reviewer 2: Confirm my Universal/Uniform change. Also, should these be numbered instead of bullets? They're referred to as "steps" above.

>   * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a URI like `https://search.mydomain.com` or a `HOST:PORT` specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a Universal Resource Identifier (URI), such as `https://search.mydomain.com`, or a `HOST:PORT` specification.
```

>   * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint.  This could be a URI like `https://search.mydomain.com` or a `HOST:PORT` specification.

Author: ```suggestion
  * Replace `https://localhost:9200` with your target cluster endpoint. This could be a URI like `https://search.mydomain.com` or a `HOST:PORT` specification.
```

  * If the cluster is configured with basic authentication, replace the username and password in the command line with the appropriate credentials.

>   * Remove the `verify_certs:false` directive if you are not specifying `localhost` as your target cluster.  This directive is needed only for clusters where SSL certificates are not set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Remove the `verify_certs:false` directive if you are not specifying `localhost` as your target cluster. This directive is necessary solely for clusters without SSL certificates.
```

>   * Remove the `verify_certs:false` directive if you are not specifying `localhost` as your target cluster.  This directive is needed only for clusters where SSL certificates are not set up.

Author: ```suggestion
  * Remove the `verify_certs:false` directive if you are not specifying `localhost` as your target cluster.  This directive is needed only for clusters where SSL certificates are not set up.
```

>   * If you are using a `HOST:PORT`specification and plan to use SSL/TLS, either specify `https://`, or add the `use_ssl:true` directive to the `--client-options` string option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If you are using a `HOST:PORT`specification and plan to use SSL or TLS, either specify `https://` or add the `use_ssl:true` directive to the `--client-options` string option.
```

>   * Remove the `--test-mode` flag to run the full workload, rather than an abbreviated test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Remove the `--test-mode` flag to run the full workload rather than an abbreviated test.
```

> You can copy the following command template to use in your own terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can copy the following command template to use it in your own terminal:
```

---
layout: default
title: Running a workload
nav_order: 9
parent: User guide
---

# Running a workload

> Once you understand all of the individual components of a OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload](add-link-to-understanding-workloads), its time to run your first workload. 

Reviewer 3: `its` -> `it is`

> Once you understand all of the individual components of a OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload](add-link-to-understanding-workloads), its time to run your first workload. 

Author: ```suggestion
Once you understand all of the individual components of a OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) [workload](add-link-to-understanding-workloads), you can now to run your first workload. 
```

## Step 1: Find the workload name

> To find the workload name, use the following command:

Reviewer 3: Nit: `To find the workload name, use the following command:` -> `To learn more about the standard workloads that come with OSB, use the following command:`

> To find the workload name, use the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about the standard workloads that come with OSB, use the following command:
```

```
opensearch-benchmark list workloads 
```
{% include copy.html %}

A list of all workloads supported by OpenSearch Benchmark appears. Review the list and select the workload that's most similar to the [use case] of your cluster.

## Step 2: Running the test

> After you've selected the workload, you can invoke the workload using the `opensearch-benchmark execute-test` command. Replace  `--target-host` with the `host:port` pairs for your cluster and `--client-options` with any authorization options required to access the cluster. The following example runs the `nyc_taxis` workload on a localhost for testing purposes. If you want to run a test on your own cluster, see [Running the workload on your own cluster](#running-a-workload-on-your-own-cluster).

Author: ```suggestion
After you've selected the workload, you can invoke the workload using the `opensearch-benchmark execute-test` command. Replace  `--target-host` with the `host:port` pairs for your cluster and `--client-options` with any authorization options required to access the cluster. The following example runs the `nyc_taxis` workload on a localhost for testing purposes. 

If you want to run a test on an external cluster, see [Running the workload on your own cluster](#running-a-workload-on-your-own-cluster).
```

```bash
opensearch-benchmark execute-test --pipeline=benchmark-only --workload=nyc_taxis --target-host=https://localhost:9200 --client-options=basic_auth_user:admin,basic_auth_password:admin,verify_certs:false
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Results from the test appear in the directory set by `--output-path` option in `workloads.json`.

Reviewer 3: `option in workloads.json` -> `option in the command line`

> Results from the test appear in the directory set by `--output-path` option in `workloads.json`.

Author: ```suggestion
Results from the test appear in the directory set by the `--output-path` option set in the `execute-test` command.
```

### Test mode

> If you want run the test in test mode to make sure your workload operates as intended, add the `--test-mode` option to the `execute-test` command. Test mode ingests only the first 1000 documents from each index provided and runs query operations against them.

Reviewer 3: Nit:`make sure your workload operates as intende` -> `perform a sanity check and make sure the workload operates as intended`

To use test mode, create a `<index>-documents-1k.json` file that contains the first 1000 documents from `<index>-documents.json` using the following command:

```
head -n 1000 <index>-documents.json > <index>-documents-1k.json

> ```

Reviewer 3: We don't need this in running a workload section because this is specific to users who are manually creating their own workloads. 

Instead, we can say that all official workloads use files such as `<index>-documents-1k.json` files that contain the first 1000 documents of `<index>-documents.json`

|                                                     error rate |          percolator_with_content_ignore_me |           0 |      % |
|                                                 Min Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                                Mean Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                              Median Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                                 Max Throughput | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |       29.37 |  ops/s |
|                                       100th percentile latency | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |     45.5703 |     ms |
|                                  100th percentile service time | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |      11.316 |     ms |
|                                                     error rate | percolator_no_score_with_content_ignore_me |           0 |      % |

--------------------------------
[INFO] SUCCESS (took 18 seconds)
--------------------------------
```

> ## Running a workload on your own cluster

Reviewer 3: I think it's more apt to say "Running a workload on an external cluster"

> ## Running a workload on your own cluster

Author: ```suggestion
## Running a workload on an external cluster
```

> Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your own cluster, using the same `execute-test` command, replacing the following settings.

Reviewer 3: Maybe update `Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your own cluster` to say `Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a local cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your external cluster`

> Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your own cluster, using the same `execute-test` command, replacing the following settings.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you're familiar with running OpenSearch Benchmark on a local cluster, you can run OpenSearch Benchmark on your external cluster
```
